=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

XML::Compile::WSS::Timestamp - expiration

=head1 INHERITANCE

 XML::Compile::WSS::Timestamp
   is a XML::Compile::WSS

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 # used in combination with any XML schema
 my $wss = XML::Compile::WSS::Timestamp->new
   ( ... parametes, some required
   , schema => $anything
   );

 # connects itself to a WSDL
 my $wss  = XML::Compile::SOAP::WSS->new;
 my $wsdl = XML::Compile::WSDL11->new($wsdlfn);
 my $ts   = $wss->timestamp
   ( ... same params, never 'schema'
   );

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The generic Web Service Security protocol is implemented by the super
class L<XML::Compile::WSS|XML::Compile::WSS>.  This extension implements a timestamp
record.

See L<documentation in the base class|XML::Compile::WSS/"DESCRIPTION">.
 
=head1 METHODS

See L<documentation in the base class|XML::Compile::WSS/"METHODS">.
 
=head2 Constructors

See L<documentation in the base class|XML::Compile::WSS/"Constructors">.
 
=over 4

=item XML::Compile::WSS::Timestamp-E<gt>B<new>(OPTIONS)

 -Option     --Defined in       --Default
  created                         now
  expires                         undef
  lifetime                        undef
  prepare      XML::Compile::WSS  'ALL'
  schema       XML::Compile::WSS  undef
  version      XML::Compile::WSS  undef
  wss_version  XML::Compile::WSS  '1.1'
  wsu_Id                          undef

=over 2

=item created => DATETIME

By default, for each constructed message the current time is taken.
See L<XML::Compile::WSS::dateTime()|XML::Compile::WSS/"Helpers"> for options on DATETIME.  If you
specify an empty string, then the C<Created> node will be skipped.

=item expires => DATETIME

See L<XML::Compile::WSS::dateTime()|XML::Compile::WSS/"Helpers"> for options on DATETIME.  When
not defined, the C<Expires> node will be skipped.

=item lifetime => SECONDS

When C<lifetime> is given and no C<expires>, then the expiration will
be set to the C<created> time plus this lifetime.  In this case, the
created time cannot be specified as formatted DATE.

=item prepare => 'READER'|'WRITER'|'ALL'|'NONE'

=item schema => an L<XML::Compile::Cache|XML::Compile::Cache> object

=item version => STRING

=item wss_version => '1.1'|MODULE

=item wsu_Id => LABEL

Adds a C<wsu:Id> attribute to the C<wsse:Timestamp>.

=back

=back

=head2 Attributes

See L<documentation in the base class|XML::Compile::WSS/"Attributes">.
 
=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<created>()

=item $obj-E<gt>B<expires>()

=item $obj-E<gt>B<lifetime>()

=item $obj-E<gt>B<schema>()

See L<XML::Compile::WSS/"Attributes">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<timestamps>()

Returns the "created" and "expires" timestamps.  Both may be undef.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<wssVersion>()

See L<XML::Compile::WSS/"Attributes">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<wsuId>()

=back

=head2 Apply

See L<documentation in the base class|XML::Compile::WSS/"Apply">.
 
=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<check>(SECURITY)

See L<XML::Compile::WSS/"Apply">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<create>(DOC, SECURITY, DATA)

See L<XML::Compile::WSS/"Apply">

=back

=head2 Helpers

See L<documentation in the base class|XML::Compile::WSS/"Helpers">.
 
=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<dateTime>(TIME|STRING|HASH)

See L<XML::Compile::WSS/"Helpers">

=back

=head2 Internals

See L<documentation in the base class|XML::Compile::WSS/"Internals">.
 
=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<loadSchemas>(SCHEMA, VERSION)

=item XML::Compile::WSS::Timestamp-E<gt>B<loadSchemas>(SCHEMA, VERSION)

See L<XML::Compile::WSS/"Internals">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<writerHookWsuId>(TYPE)

See L<XML::Compile::WSS/"Internals">

=back

=head1 DETAILS

See L<documentation in the base class|XML::Compile::WSS/"DETAILS">.
 
=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of XML-Compile-WSS distribution version 1.09,
built on October 11, 2013. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/xml-compile/>

Other distributions in this suite:
L<XML::Compile>,
L<XML::Compile::SOAP>,
L<XML::Compile::SOAP12>,
L<XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon>,
L<XML::Compile::SOAP::WSA>,
L<XML::Compile::C14N>,
L<XML::Compile::WSS>,
L<XML::Compile::WSS::Signature>,
L<XML::Compile::Tester>,
L<XML::Compile::Cache>,
L<XML::Compile::Dumper>,
L<XML::Compile::RPC>,
L<XML::Rewrite>
and
L<XML::LibXML::Simple>.

Please post questions or ideas to the mailinglist at
F<http://lists.scsys.co.uk/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/xml-compile> .
For live contact with other developers, visit the C<#xml-compile> channel
on C<irc.perl.org>.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2011-2013 by [Mark Overmeer]. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

